So I have a little exercise for you,
if you open the same playgrounds,
and move your mouse around the box,
and click and drag and
see if you are able to interact with it.
And afterwards uncomment line 5 and
save, or
play the playground example just to get
you a little familiar with Babylon.
And we have a question,
any thoughts on Babylon versus Three.js?
And I do get asked this question a lot.
We will cover Three.js, as well.
I will show you three
different libraries actually.
And the third one is a frame.
And both Babylon and
Three.js are doing exactly the same thing.
I am not aware of the differences,
there must be, but
the tooling is a little bit different.
That is one thing that might change your
decision on using one versus the other.
So Babylon.js has these really
interesting node-based editors.
So if you have ever worked with Unity or
Unreal Engine,
you might be familiar with these.
So you can plug different parts
of the codes into each other,
and then something that would
take a lot of code writing
would be much easier to do
with these node editors.
They also have particle editor that
you can go into, and yeah, so
those are the things that I really enjoy.
Three.js does have a editor as well, but
I didn't find it as useful because for
some reason when I
downloade it there was some
things that it was really
hard to understand and
the positioning was not working perfectly.
And what about GreenSock?
I heard that one is really
popular among a lot of companies.
As far as I remember GreenSock
was a animation tool.
There are lots of paid tools as welll,
kind of would be like GreenSock,
Etwall is one of them.
It allows you to do things that
are not currently very possible
implemented in in WebXR APIs to
which is really, really neat.
But the cost is high as far as I've heard.
>> I have a question about Node Editor.
Is it just for materials?
>> No, the Particle Editor
is kind of similar to, and
I believe the point is to make everything
possible with these Node Editors.
And let's see the material literature.
Okay, so yeah,
this is their new documentation page for
Babylon.js, and
it's really nicely organized.
So if you go onto the tools,
you can see the asset libraries
that you can use and
utility functions, and all tutorials.
And if you click on any
of the documentation,
you also get the examples and
where you can see them.
Well, maybe not in this one.
So they have the Node Material Editor,
Particle Editor,
Sprite Editor, Texture Inspector, and
the new thing that they just released is
the Skeleton Viewer which is really neat.
So when you go to the documentation
on the right side,
they have the examples that you
can click on and see how it works.
For those of you who are not familiar
with what the skeleton will be,
is when you're creating an animation
like this cool guy over here,
the way you move things kind
of naturally is by adding
some of the underlying
bone structure in a way.
And you you would also
paint like how much that
bone structure would move
some parts of the model.
But if you have any issues
with this skeleton,
it's really hard to debug it.
You have to go back to the tool that you
created this animation maybe, and see it.
But if there is something
specific to your application,
it's really hard to figure it out.
So with this tool,
you can capture it, and debug it, and
see all of the information over here.
So we have the skeleton group, and
we can dive into specifics
of the Yeti over here.
And then you can see
all of the information,
transformations, and animations over here.
So tooling is one and they are both
written with TypeScript right now,
the Three.js and Babylon.js,
which I'm a huge fan of.
So there's no difference there too.
Three.js has been around for
a little bit longer, I believe, and
they have a little bit more resources
when you go to stack overflow.
>> Sorry, I got too wrapped
up in what you were saying,
which line were we supposed to comment on?
>> Line 5, I'm actually going
to do it here too, so [LAUGH].
So before that line, as you can see I'm
trying to move it and it's not possible.
I have no way of interacting
with the object.
And if I add this line and
then save it, and then run it,
then now I can drag and
move the 3D objects.
So this is attaching
to controls to camera,
and allows you to do anything you like.
The question was how to make
a material from scratch on Babylon.js.
So let's take a look at what we have here.
First, we have a Vector3 position which is
translated into the Word position.
World position is the relative
information actually.
And we have the View X Projection,
and we have some RGBA, and VertexOutput.
Let's see.
This is a very new editor
actually just came out last week.
So I'm going to give it a try for
the first time too.
And now we could see what is being
displayed is using the material
that we are creating here.
There should be a place that we
create a new one, like this one.
Actually, can we just get back to this
one because I haven't played with this,
this is very new?
I'll take a look, and
then maybe after the break.
So the question was when we
are creating the box object,
and if we give height -2 what happens?
[LAUGH] That is a specific situation,
I've never tried to,
let's put it to work here and
see how it looks.
I'm going to close In spector Editor and
move this one a bit.
So one of the exercise was to play with
the box and have a width and a height.
But in this case,
our friend Patrick here decide to try
the negative version, and
let's see what happens.
So it actually went the other way,
as far as I can tell.
So if you ever worked with a 3D tool,
what you do is basically
extrude an object on one direction,
and usually up,
but in this case it's
extruding towards the bottom.
Lighting is a default lighting, but
I think what it does is it took the
surface on one side and then pull it back.
That's why it looks hollow.
And another question is where
do I get an XR add-on to Chrome?
I have all of the things
that you will need for
this section under the Resources.
So one of the things that you would need
to have to run the server is Node.js.
And if you are not working on a device,
there are a few tools that,
well, there's one tool that you
could use which is WebXR Emulator,
and you can find it for
from the Chrome extension store and
add it to your developer tools.
Then you might have this WebXR
device emulators available to you.
And if you do Ctrl+Shift+J or Cmd+Shift+J,
and open up your developer
tools on Chrome,
you might see the WebXR here.
If you're not seeing it, what you can
do is click on this hamburger menu
on the right side and look for the more
tools, and it might be on that site.
And possibly after you download it,
you might need to read
restart your browser.
In this case, this experience doesn't
have any WebXR yet, but the idea is
that without having to wear a headset,
you are able to move back and forth.
You have the hand controls, so
the experience should move
at the same time as well.
And also, you have options for
different kinds of headsets that
you can choose from, Google Cardboard
is one, Oculus is another one.
But unfortunately there's
no AR version of it yet.
And for
those of you who are using any iOS device,
WebXR currently is not
available on the Safari.
And what you can do is download this
application called the WebXR Viewer
from the Apple store, so
you have the link on our Resources page.
>> Sorry, did you say there's no WebXR for
augmented reality?
>> There is, the extension is
not covering augmented reality.
Basically the way you move the headsets
like that it doesn't work for headsets.
And also there are not very many
augmented reality headsets out there.
That's one reason that
we don't have the tools.
But since you are a Unity developer,
you can download the HoloLens 2
Emulator and use it with Unity.